so as I mentioned towards the end of the
previous video one thing that really
stood out with the various flow charts
we look at is that the new steps that we
added for both artist and album are
pretty much identical and as a result
that sounded like a good candidate for a
function so what we're going to do is
write a function to handle that and i'm
going to create the function called
find object and then we're going to
add that before this method load data
on line 82 so let's go ahead and do that
so def is going to be...
...
that's all we have to do to to
create this will now work with both the
artist and the album and you can probably
see there that performs a brute-force
search in that checks the name attribute
for each item in turn and returning the
matching items as I mentioned finds one and
obviously on line 87 returns none
it wasn't able to find anything now there
are faster ways to search the list but
what they generally needs that
require the list to be sorted
so we can't use in here unless
we sort of the list after each addition
and doing that would make the code
far less efficient the code will probably
very slow if their were huge number of
artist but if there were a huge number
then we probably wouldn't be trying to
hold everything in memory so so one
approach with a huge data file would be
to sort the data in the file first and
then process the sorted data rather
than sorting the list after each artist
is added
ok so now we have a function to return
an object if it exists in the list
that's pass to it the this is the find
object function now we've got that we
can modify the load data function to use
new algorithm and use find object
to fix the problem with the earlier
program let's go ahead and do that so
I'm just going to move this down on so
you can see what we're working on with
this method first change we want to make
is this first test here after we've got
a new artist we're going to append that
at the time with the first new artist so
we're going to do an artist list....
...
...so if you get down to here with the
else so else if the art the new artist
name is not equal to artist field so we just
read details for new artists we want to
change this a little bit now that's
because we're now not storing the current
album in the current artist collection because
we're dealing with the new artist on line
104 so i'm going to delete this second
line here and still going to change the
comment now to do be corrected what
we're doing we're going at this point we are
retrieve the artist object if there is
one
otherwise there isn't one we're going to
create a new artist object and add it to
the artists list so at this point we can
put new artists going to use that
find object method that's going to be
new artist...
...
ok so at this point we've got the code
there for that and so checking to see
whether new artists is none if it is
going to create a new artist field bearing in mind
we are creating it based on the
artists field and we're testing for new
artists here and then we're going to
append the new artist as well to the artist
to the artists list
otherwise if the new artist name or new artist.
name attribute attribute is
not equal to the record we just
or the entry we just read from the file this
artist field that we've got up when we are going
through the artist . text file that's
the case you can see that we've read the
details for a new artist we retrieve the
artist object if there is one using the
find object function otherwise we're
going to create a new artist object and
add it to the artists list you can see me
doing that there's so new artist equals
find object
the artists field the artists list
the two parameters and then coming
checking to see whether that was
none which meant that the artist field
wasn't found under the name attribute
for the in the artists list so that's
the case i'm going to create a new
artist object the artist based on the
artists field and we're going to do artists
.list . append or
artists_list.append that new
artists and we get down to here
setting new album to none that was
similar to this code here which I can
now take out this duplication so
move this up so moving down
there we're going to be
processing the new album so
if new album is none the new album
equals album we're creating that new
albums and that doesn't need to change
at all but the other thing or the one
thing we do want to do is you want to
work at the point of creating a new
album we're going to be adding it to the
list so...
....
...so we're having it at the point
that we've created that but otherwise
if the new album . name is not equal to
the album field then we just read the
new album for the current
but again we need
to change because now we're not storing
the album at this point we're doing
something styles are different here now
based on the algorithms we talked about
in the previous video we're going to
retrieve the album object there is one
...
otherwise we are going to create the new
album object and stored in the artists
collection
...ok so that's what we're gonna be doing
so to do that we need to add that find
object call...
...
in other words if we found that this new
album didn't exist in the name attribute
for any entry in our list that was
passed then we're going to create the
object so...
...
and we're passing the parameters to make
a valid album basically swaps so that new
album is created before calling at album
which wasn't the case in the previous
code again is very similar to how we
process the new artists but we're
obviously dealing with albums at this
point and we still want to keep down
here that code valid
because you want to create a new song object
at that point that's going to be new
song is still equal to song the song field and new
artist that still correct then likewise
for the album new album add song new
song that's going to be correct as well
now that we've done that if we just moved
and look at this last bit of code we
don't need that processes code anymore
because with the code with built-in now
handles those last lines of codes for
the last entries that before we had to
do a separate check so we can delete
that and just returned at that point so
these few changes that we made change
the program to use the second algorithm
that we discussed and add new object
to the list we doing that before
populating them with their albums or
souls so we should be good to go that's
our revised algorithm there now our load
data method or function should say so
what we're doing now is we're going over here
we're going to delete check folder.txt
because we're going to
go through and create again we just want
to make sure that it is actually
working so i'm just going to select and
select delete delete
and obviously that's giving us a reminder
that by the way your using that
its found a reference to check file.txt
but of course we're creating that we're
aware of that and we can ignore that
because you can see up here it does say
these occurrences won't be changed which
you would expect in this case so do
refactor which is really just a
deletion so now if we run this is just
do that again we'll run it and let's now
compare the two files against so going to
select got an error here by the looks of
it so probably a typo I made let's just go
back and have a look at that that's
referring to that code of here and
looking at that objects got has no attribute
albums think i made a typo their so that's
on line 122 let's look at that and
defining objects album field and i put new
album albums and of course it should be new
artist . albums and I
think the rest is now correct
ok so i think that's now correct let's
just try running again which would hope
not get an error this time
ok that was better also notice that
check file. txt showed up which is
almost a good sign that it's working
so let's now do what I wanted to do
previously is select both those files and
compare them
so selecting both of them to the
view and compare files i'll just go back
and open that comparison and we can see
now there aren't any differences to the file
and that is actually good news so
note that only a single artist has been
created for ZZ type it's albums get
printed out altogether but because the
list is not sorted they appear in the order
that the artist was added and of course
ZZTop was added just after Aerosmith and
also all the aerosmith albums are
printed together which is a sign that
there's only one aerosmith within the
artists so if i scroll to the end of the
file just got to check down here now i'm
scrolling down the left side of the
window notice some more ZZTop
albums here to the left hand side so
that's good
on and when you are scrolling make sure
you use the scroll bar on this side sort
of move up because if you come over here
and use the scroll bar you get a
different result because we're scrolling
now the check file.txt
instead of our original albums . txt
the bottom line now is there now a
problem which we expected because we
did change the order of those files
ourselves so again just a note here you
can't scroll down either side of the
comparison display further down the end
of the file so make sure that when
you're scrolling you scroll bar for albums
. txt rather than check file. txt to
get the end of it just looking down to
the bottom we can see that theirs line
684 and we can see we've got that for
both our albums . txt and check file.
txt and just going back to our output
looking this down the bottom it now correctly
says 28 artists and the good thing was
that the ZZ top albums and songs will
match now match even though they're not
in the same position in each file so it
looks as I we've got this working
correctly which is fantastic and again
just to note we go back and have a look
this collection here
ZZTop antenna that was the part that
outside of order come back
here we've got the ZZ Top
we've got those but we've still got the
other ZZ top albums and information down
the bottom of the file as well so that is
good it those look like things are working
fine now I'm going to finish the video
out here now in the next video we've got
a mini challenge for you so let's work
on that in the next video